>> Lukas Ruebbelke: That's really
the four main bindings that you have,
string interpolation,
which is super common.
I'm gonna think pretty much every
templating language has those double
curly braces.
Properties, brackets,
methods or events, parentheses,
put them together,
banana in a box, AKA angular hug.
Now, what happens when you
have an element on the page
that you want to reference
via some other element?
You can do what's called
a local template variable.
And so there's a few use cases that
this becomes very very Interesting,
one is if you're doing user
interfaces with observables.
And so in other words,
I have a mouse move and I wanna actually
create a new observable based off of
this or I want to drag something.
And so you would need a reference
to that element on the stage.
This is where you would use
a local template variable.
For our purposes what we will use is for
is two reference a form.
So when you are working with a form
there's kinda of two winners
in pieces with that.
I'm getting slightly ahead of myself, but
you have the underlying data of the form,
what is actually in the fields, and
then the state or validity of the form.
And so, you need a way to say, if this
form is not valid, disable this button.
And so, this is where you will see
this kinda pattern quite a bit.
So if you look down here, we're saying
if the formRef is not valid,
disable the button.
Well, what is formRef?
Well,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Use
the number sign if you will, hashtag.
And whatever you call it that is available
for the entirety of the template.
So in this case we're saying formRefm,
this could be anything.
And in this case we're
passing in the actual form,
underlying form instance
to check its validity.
So we'll talk a little bit
more about it later but
what I want to connect here is that
we're creating a variable here,
formRef, as noted by the hashtag.
That we can then reference down here and
say,
we want to disable this button if
this form is not valid, make sense?
One other example,
I thought I added it here, maybe I do.
Hold on, wait for it, I guess I did not,
you'll see it in the code though.
You'll also see this in, with endsheet_if,
I thought I had a slide for this.
But if you have ng if else, you can say if
this is not true, then show this, and so
you'll see that in there.
So we'll show that in the code
in just a moment, yes?
>> Speaker 2: When it is triggered,
when is the disable triggered, or
when is the form referred by triggered?
If that is a function,
when is that triggered?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So essentially,
every kind of digest cycle, so
if there's some event that happens,
like somebody touches it.
If you will like there's some kind
of key stroke some change event,
then the form is evaluated.
And so, that's something really
interesting about forms in itself,
that Anglers did a really good job of,
even with Angler one dot x.
Is to keep a form valid, and
keep track of everything,
there's kind of this, there's a lot
of things that need to happen.
And so angular's kind of doing this for
us, and we're able to just reference this
ng form, and just know if it's valid, and
they're kind of handling that for us.
But it's a busy, every change
event it's now being evaluated.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right,
so,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Local template
variable, hashtag,
you put it on an element,
you can reference it anywhere
else in the template.
Using view child you can actually
pull it into the component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Occasionally, and
by that quite often, you will want
to affect the structure of the DOM.
For instance, if this is true show this,
if not hide it.
Or, I have this collection of things,
iterate over it.
So NG4 is a really good example
of a structural directive.
That it changes the DOM layout by adding
and removing DOM elements, pretty simple.
You will see an asterisk on
these directives to essentially
indicate that it is modifying the HTML,
that is the nature of it.
And the reason why this happens is that
Angular's is doing some things under
the hood with the template tags.
And so, the asterisk is just
syntactic sugar that they're taking,
it's kind of a TypeScript
move if you will.
They're taking the asterisk and
they're using it to expand out and
do a lot more things under the hood
that I'm just too lazy to do.
For example, ngIF,
if hero is true then show it,
if not, hide it, that is DOM manipulation.
NgFor, so looping over the heros
collection and stamping it out.
Ngswitch, and you can see here,
we're actually
binding to the property or
the value of toeChoice.
But underneath the hood you have
the SwitchCase, and depending on
which one is true, it's turning
that one on and the other ones off.
Now let me show you what I mean
by the asterisk, syntax show.
So with switch case or
with the asterisks, we're just saying,
hey it's modifying the dom,
but we could do this by hand.
And what is happening is, A,
there's wrapping this element in template,
in a template tag,
which is kind of a web component thing and
then turning that on and off.
And so you could do this long hand but
I'm lazy.
So thank goodness for syntactic sugar.
So that is the idea is if you wanna do
it long hand you can do it this way.
But I think way is just so much easier,
and that's where that comes in.
Last but not least, you will run into
this occasionally, is sometimes you
need to reference a property that just
does not exist yet, it's undefined.
So it's in Ruby and
a bunch of different things.
The safe navigation operator is denote by
a question mark, followed by a period.
So for instance if you wanted
to check an ID on an object and
the object was undefined or
null it would normally a tablet would
throw an error or just not do anything.
Using the safe navigation
operator you can say check it.
If it's not there, don't do anything and
just kind of absorb it.
So what is happening is angular js
they would just kinda swallow it.
And so it allowed for
a little bit kind of more loose code.
With angular they're a lot more
specific and a lot more strict.
But this allows us to simply
say this may not exist yet,
if so, just don't do anything.
So for instance,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: If first they
did not exist on null hero, and
we still need to bind to it,
we just put a question mark here.
>> Speaker 2: What if
null hero is undefined?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Then you've got
bigger problems.
>> Speaker 2: No,
so, I mean,
do you do that nullHero question mark, and
then something else, or?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
I don't think you can do it on
the overarching object, so it's more so
properties on objects.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.